---
title: {% name %} - Docs
---

## {% name %}

{% name %} is an ultra minimalist static site generator. Barebone markdown + python templating.

It's a work in progress.

## Requirements

{% name %} is a python program, it runs on gnu/linux systems and requires the following libraries to work:

```
python3 python3-markdown python3-bs4 python3-yaml python3-pil python3-inotify rsync
```

## Usage

```
python3 -m {% name.lower() %} [-h] [--src SRC] [--out OUT] [--watch] [--version]

options:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  --src SRC   site source directory (default: ./src)
  --out OUT   site build output directory (default: ./build)
  --watch     watch for changes in sources and rebuild automatically (default: False)
  --version   show program's version number and exit
```

## Site structure

The source directory can contain files of any types without predetermined folder structure. It must contain a YAML file named `config.yml` located at its root, that will determine how source files will be used to built the website.

```yaml
# This is the configuration file used to build {% name %}'s documentation

{% include('config.yml', parse_yaml=False) %}
```


## Templating syntaxes

### Single line syntax

```
{{% '%' %} CODE {% '%' %}}
```

Will be replaced by the return value of `CODE`, interpreted as python code.

### Multiline syntax

```
{{% '%%' %}
    CODE
{% '%%' %}}
```

Will be replaced by the standard output of `CODE`'s execution' (fed with `print()`).

## Templating globals

Besides the variables and functions listed below, all first level keys in `config.yml` are available as globals in embed python codes. Additionally, custom variables and functions can be declared in a file named `functions.py` in the source directory's root.


!!! note "content"

    ### content

    Path to current page's source file, to be used with `include()` in the template file to generate the actual content.

    **Example**

    ```html
    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
    <head>
        <title>{{% '%' %} meta['title'] {% '%' %}}</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <main>
            {{% '%' %} include(content) {% '%' %}}
        </main>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```



!!! note "`compiled_pages`"

    ### compiled_pages

    A dict of `source_path: build_path` pairs generated from the `pages` entry in `config.yml`.

    **Example**

    ```python
    <div class="blog">
        {{% '%%' %}

            blog = []

            for page in compiled_pages:
                if 'blog/' in page:
                    blog.append(page)

            blog.sort(reverse=True)

            for post in blog:
                print('<div class="blog-post">')
                print(include(post))
                print('</div>')

        {% '%%' %}}
    </div>
    ```

!!! note "`current_page`"

    ### current_page

    Name of current page being built (key in the `pages` list from `config.yml`).


!!! note "`toc`"

    ### toc

    HTML table of contents of current page, built after headers starting with `<h2>`.

    **Example**

    ```html
    <div class="toc">
        {{% '%' %} toc {% '%' %}}
    </div>
    ```


!!! note "`include(path, parse_yaml=True, **context)`"

    ### include()

    Compile resource (resolve templating syntaxes) and return it.

    **Parameters**

    - `path`: path to file, relative to source directory
    - `parse_yaml`: set to `False` to return `.yml` resource as a string instead of a dict
    - `**context`: keyword arguments to include in the excecution context for embed python code blocks (will be available as globals)

    **Returns**

    A dict if requested resource is a YAML file (`.yml`), a string otherwise.


!!! note "`get(name, default='')`"

    ### get()

    Get variable by name from global context with a fallback default value


    **Parameters**

    - `name`: variable name
    - `default`: fallback value if variable is not defined in execution context

    **Returns**

    Variable or fallback value.



!!! note "`get_meta(path)`"

    ### get_meta()

    Get meta datas of markdown resource.

    **Parameters**

    - path: path to markdown file (`.md`), relative to source directory

    **Returns**

    A dict containing meta datas found in requested file.



!!! note "`image_cache(path, resize=200, quality=70)`"

    ### image_cache()

    Create a resized version of an image and cache it.

    **Parameters**

    - path: image path, relative to source directory, or distant url (`http://` or `https://`). Distant resources will be downloaded only if resized image is not already in cache.  
    - resize: image width, aspect_ratio will be preserved.
    - quality: jpeg quality, ignored if source image is a gif.

    **Returns**

    Path to resized image, relative to build directory.


## Managing uploads

{% name %} doesn't manage files besides the strict necessary to run the site, including resized images generated by `image_cache()`.

Other resources should be uploaded by the means of your choice and linked to directly in the the site's content.

It's also possible to create a file database and use a custom function to generate links in a more robust manner.

/// tab | uploads.yml
```yaml
# file uploads data base
base_url: https://domain.tld/uploads/
files:
    img1: image1.png
    img2: image2.jpg

```
///

/// tab | functions.py
```python
file_db = include('uploads.yml')
def file_url(id):
    url = file_db['base_url']
    if id in file_db['files']:
        return file_db['base_url'] + file_db['files'][id]
    else:
        return 'Error: file not found in database'

```
///

/// tab | example.md
```md
## Title

Click [here]({{% '%' %} file_url('img1') {% '%' %}}) to download.

```
///
